Key Terms
Programming code - Programming code is a set of written computer instructions, guided by rules, using a computer programming language. It might help to think of the computer instructions as a detailed, step-by-step recipe for performing tasks. The instructions tell computers and machines how to perform an action. Programming code may also be referred to as source code or scripts.

Programming languages - Programming languages are similar to human spoken languages in that they both use syntax and semantics. Programming languages are used to write computer programs.  Some common programming languages include Python, Java, C, C++, C#, and R.

Syntax - Syntax is a set of rules for how statements are constructed in both human and computer languages. Programming syntax includes rules for the order of elements in programming instructions, as well as the use of special characters and their placements in statements. This concept is similar to the syntax rules for grammar and punctuation in human language.

Semantics - Semantics refers to the intended meaning or effect of statements, or collections of words, in both human and computer languages. Semantic errors are also referred to as logical errors.

Computer program - A computer program is a step-by-step list of instructions that a computer follows to reach an intended goal. It is important to be clear and precise about the actions a computer program is supposed to perform because computers will do exactly what they are instructed to do. Computer programs can be long, complex, and accomplish a variety of tasks. They are often developed by computer programmers and software engineers, but anyone can learn to create them. Computer programs may involve a structured development cycle. They can be written in a wide variety of programming languages, such as Python, Java, C++,  R, and more. The completed format of a program is often a single executable file.

Script - Scripts are usually shorter and less complex than computer programs. Scripts are often used to automate specific tasks. However, they can be used for complex tasks if needed. Scripts are often written by IT professionals, but anyone can learn to write scripts. Scripts have a shorter, less structured development cycle as compared to the development of complex computer programs and software. Scripts can be written in a variety of programming languages, like Python, Javascript, Ruby, Bash, and more. Some scripting languages are interpreted languages and are only compatible with certain platforms.

Automation - Automation is used to replace a repetitive manual step with one that happens automatically. 

Output - Output is the end result of a task performed by a function or computer program. Output can include a single value, a report, entries into a database, and more. 

Input - Input is information that is provided to a program by the end user. Input can be text, voice, images, biometrics, and more.   

Functions - A function is a reusable block of code that performs a specific task.

Variables - Variables are used to temporarily store changeable values in programming code. 

Platform-specific / OS specific scripting language - Platform-specific scripting languages, like PowerShell (for Windows) and Bash (for Linux), are used by system administrators on those platforms. 

Client-side scripting language - Client-side scripting languages, like JavaScript, are used mostly for web programming. The scripts are transferred from a web server to the end-user’s internet browser, then executed in the browser.

Machine language - Machine language is the lowest-level computer language. It communicates directly with computing machines in binary code (ones and zeros). In binary code, one equals a pulse of electricity and zero equals no electrical pulse. Machine language instructions are made from translating languages like Python into complex patterns of ones and zeros. 

Cross-platform language - Programming language that is compatible with one or more platforms / operating systems (e.g., Windows, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android).

Object-oriented programming language - In object-oriented programming languages, most coding elements are considered to be objects with configurable properties. For example, a form field is an object that can be configured to accept only dates as input in the mm/dd/yy format, and can be configured to read from and write to a specific database. 

Python interpreter - An interpreter is the program that reads and executes Python code by translating Python code into computer instructions.

expression - a combination of numbers, symbols, or other values that produce a result when evaluated

data types - classes of data (e.g., string, int, float, Boolean, etc.), which include the properties and behaviors of instances of the data type (variables)

variable - an instance of a data type class, represented by a unique name within the code, that stores changeable values of the specific data type

implicit conversion - when the Python interpreter automatically converts one data type to another

explicit conversion - when code is written to manually convert one data type to another using a data type conversion function:

str() - converts a value (often numeric) to a string data type

int() - converts a value (usually a float) to an integer data type

float() - converts a value (usually an integer) to a float data type
return value - the value or variable returned as the end result of a function

parameter (argument) -  a value passed into a function for use within the function

refactoring code - a process to restructure code without changing functionality
reate a reusable function - Replace duplicate code with one reusable function to make the code easier to read and repurpose.

Refactor code - Update code so that it is self-documenting and the intent of the code is clear.

Add comments - Adding comments is part of creating self-documenting code. Using comments allows you to leave notes to yourself and/or other programmers to make the purpose of the code clear.

Comparison with Strings - operators greater than > and less than < can be used to alphabetize words in Python. The letters of the alphabet have numeric codes in Unicode (also known as ASCII values). The uppercase letters A to Z are represented by the Unicode values 65 to 90. The lowercase letters a to z are represented by the Unicode values 97 to 122

elif - An elif statement must follow an if statement, and will only be evaluated if the if statement was evaluated as false.

CommonError: Failure to initialize variables. Make sure all the variables used in the loop’s condition are initialized before the loop.

CommonError: Unintended infinite loops. Make sure that the body of the loop modifies the variables used in the condition, so that the loop will eventually end for all possible values of the variables. You can often prevent an infinite loop by using the break keyword or by adding end criteria to the condition part of the while loop.

while loop - Tells the computer to execute a set of instructions while a specified condition is True. In other words, while loops keep executing the same group of instructions until the condition becomes False.

infinite loop - Missing a method for exiting the loop, causing the loop to run forever.

For loops - when there's a sequence of elements that you want to iterate.

break - A break statement in Python provides a way to exit out of a loop before the loop's condition is false. Once a break statement is encountered, the program's control flow jumps out of the loop and continues executing the code after the loop.

pass - A pass statement in Python is a placeholder statement which is used when the syntax requires a statement, but you don't want to execute any code or command.

range()- generates a sequence of integer numbers, which can be used with a for loop to control the start point, the end point, and the incremental values of the loop. The range() function can take up to three parameters:  range(start, stop, step) 
